Begin RFC:
RFC: 0.0.0
Title: Install-Node-Version Script Documentation
Author: Richeve Bebedor <richeve.bebedor+vs-scripts@gmail.com>
Status: Draft
Created: 2025-12-20

1.  Introduction:

    This document specifies the design and usage of the install-node-version
    PowerShell script. The goal of this script is to provide a seamless,
    repository-scoped Node.js LTS environment initialization using Volta.

2.  Scope:

    This specification applies to Windows-based terminal environments running
    either Windows PowerShell 5.1 or PowerShell Core 7+.

3.  Technical Summary:

    The script automates the following sequence:
    3.1. Environment preparation and preference setting.
    3.2. Administrative privilege verification and auto-elevation.
    3.3. Platform verification (Windows-only).
    3.4. Volta tool manager installation (via winget) and path configuration.
    3.5. Repository root detection (via Git or CWD).
    3.6. Local package.json initialization (if required).
    3.7. LTS Node.js pinning to the detected repository scope.

4.  Implementation Details:

    The script is composed of modular functions designed for isolation and unit
    testing:

    - Set-ScriptEnvironment: Configures execution context.
    - Test-IsAdmin / Invoke-Elevation: Handles privilege escalation.
    - Assert-WindowsPlatform: Guards against non-Windows execution.
    - Ensure-VoltaInstalled: Manages tool lifecycle.
    - Invoke-NodePinningWorkflow: Orchestrates the core logic.

5.  Operations:

    5.1. Initialization
    To initialize a folder-scoped Node.js environment, run the script without
    arguments from the target directory:

        powershell.exe -File .\install-node-version.ps1

    5.2. Verification
    Upon completion, the script verifies the active Node.js version and lists
    the Volta-managed tools for the current folder.

6.  Security Considerations:

    The script requires administrative privileges for winget installations and
    binary path modifications. Users should review the script before executing
    it with elevated permissions.

7.  Project Metadata:

    Additional documentation and project metadata can be found in the following
    files:

    - AUTHOR: Primary script maintainer details.
    - CHANGELOG: Chronological record of all notable changes.
    - CONTRIBUTING: Guidelines for submitting contributions.
    - LICENSE: The MIT License terms.
    - ORIGIN: Canonical source repository URL.
    - REFERENCES: External tools and specification links.
    - SECURITY: Vulnerability reporting and policy details.
    - VERSION: Current version identifier.

8.  References:

    - Volta: https://volta.sh
    - Windows Package Manager (winget): https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli
End RFC:
